Polymorphism & Composition Homework - Quiz
Polymorphism
1. What does the word 'polymorphism' mean?
Polymorphism is used to describe the behaviour of a class that can take many forms.

2. What does it mean when we apply polymorphism to OO design? Give a simple Java example.
An example of this would be that one class can be an umbrella term for many classes that are all disparate from each other but yet are still a type of that single class - e.g. a student and an instructor are both forms of a person.

3. What can we use to implement polymorphism in Java?
Polymorphism can be implemented via the use of abstract classes or interfaces.

4. How many 'forms' can an object take when using polymorphism?
As many as we want. For example there can be many forms of a person. However, looking at our implementations polymorphism, any one of those forms can only extend to a single type when using abstract classes (i.e. if a student is a form of a person it can't also be a form of a teenager) - this restriction doesn't apply to the interfaces method though.

5. Give an example of when you could use polymorphism.
When modelling a system that requires multiple classes that all forms of the same thing, for example different types of staff.

Composition
6. What do we mean by 'composition' in reference to object-oriented programming?
Composition refers to when one class HAS A-nother class as one of the properties that make it.

7. When would you use composition? Provide a simple example in Java.
It is better to favour composition over inheritance where possible, creating classes of other classes to access their methods. For example, a football team has a goalkeeper, rather than a team is made up of an array of Players, with different positions like goalkeeper beings subclasses of Player.

8. What is/are the advantage(s) of using composition?
It lets us make a class that can use behaviours from another class or group of classes without relying on inheritance dependancies that can become messy or complicated in larger models.

9. What happens to the behaviours when the object composed of them is destroyed?
In composition, the object composed of other behaviours owns those behaviours. This means that when the object is destroyed all of its behaviours are also destroyed.
